---
title: "Coin Hours"
isdate: false
weight: 5
filename: "/content/devdocs/guides/coin_hours.md"
---
{{% comment %}}
This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
{{% /comment %}}

Unlike Bitcoin, Skycoin users don't need to give away part of their balance as incentive from miners to process their transaction. Instead, they use Coin Hours as fees. Coin Hours are automatically generated by holding SKY in a wallet (1 Coin Hour by every hour you hold a 1 Coin). Coin Hours are similar to “Gas” in Ethereum or coin aging in Bitcoin, but are exchange-tradeable and are a separate parallel currency in Skycoin. This way, Coin Hours work as a spam pevention mechanism. Additionally, Coin Hours and a way to allocate scarce resources (like bandwith or storage) without the need to rely on the coin supply for this.

In future versions of the Skycoin protocol, Coin Hours will have an exchange rate against SKY, allowing for an optimal displacement of resources according to demand.

### Coin Hours Overview
{{% subhead %}}

Coin Hours are earned by holding Skycoin in a wallet (holding Skycoin on exchanges won't result on CoinHours earnings). Coin Hours are attached to UXTXs, and the amount is calculated as following:

- Holding n SKY generates n Coin Second per second
- 3600 Coin Seconds equals 1 Coin Hour
- Only Coin Hours are considered a valid unit (they are represented in a uint64-typed field)

To avoid inconsistences, reference time for determining current balance of Coin Hours in a given wallet is the difference between head block's timestamp and corresponding UTXT's block's timestamp, as individual machine's time might vary and referring to a central time provider would sacrifice decentralization.

To prevent inflation, only a maximum of 100m Coin Hours will be created per hour.

### Coin Hours Use Cases

Coin Hours can be the basis of several Skycoin-powered features, such as payment for VPN services, or bandwidth on Skywire

#### Coin Hours & CoinJoin

In CoinJoin servers, Coin Hours can be used as collateral during the merging and mixing process, discouraging users from backing out or slowing down an ongoing CoinJoin operation.

### Final remarks

By yieling hourly value, Skycoin has value not just as a medium of exchange, unit of account and store of value, but also as a form of investment.

<!-- Q: Can Coin Hours play a role with CX/CXO analogous to ETH's gas with EVM? -->

<!-- Q: Some consulted materials say that each transaction will burn 50% of the accumulated Coin Hours in spent UXTX, but I can't find support for that in the code. Following @olemis' guideline, I give priority to the code -->